README.md, before:

# Halloween AR Face Filter Challenge

Dev challenge at Stink Studios London: use Spark AR Studio to make a spooky Halloween experience.

The core technical aspect I was interested in was getting the knife to look like it was stuck in the head (i.e. to get the tracking and layering occlusion right)

I then figured it needed a build up for the suspense and foreshadowing, so that the "big reveal" would satisfying. I ended up with something a bit like an interactive music video that requires around 2 minutes of attention. Definitely more an art experiment than an attempt to make a filter people would use on Instagram! You can see a full video here: [vimeo.com/407093062](https://vimeo.com/407093062)

I expect it would be more trouble than it's worth to get the project running from the files in this repo. Spark AR has gone through 37(!) major version releases since I made this project. I mostly stepped through the [tutorials](https://sparkar.facebook.com/ar-studio/learn/documentation/tutorials-and-samples/) Spark AR Studio provides and combined techniques from those to build the effect. For instance, the 3D object occlusion method is based on the sunglasses demo, and the blood streams are a slight twist on the confetti particles and a happy birthday message. All the 3D knifes and fantasy-novel looking blades are from the free assets available in the Spark AR marketplace.

Work Stink Studios has done with Spark AR:
- [Mickey Mouse 90th Birthday AR](https://www.stinkstudios.com/work/disney-mickey-mouse-90th-birthday-ar)
- [Selfridges AR Experience](https://www.stinkstudios.com/work/auxiliary--selfridges-ar-experience)

### Selfies taken in the filter

[Selfie take using AR face filter 1]()
[Selfie take using AR face filter 2]()
[Selfie take using AR face filter 3]()
[Selfie take using AR face filter 4]()

### In process

[In process image 1]()
[In process image 2]()

Commit message:

update readme with image references and finalised text

README.md, after:

# Halloween AR Face Filter Challenge

Dev challenge at Stink Studios London: use [Spark AR Studio](https://sparkar.facebook.com/ar-studio) to make a spooky Halloween experience.

[In process image 1](https://github.com/tyreer/AR-Face-Filter-Challenge/blob/master/images/dev-screengrab-0.png?raw=true)

I've included the custom `script.js` file I wrote to drive the interactions and timer. Spark AR has gone through 37(!) major version in the 8 months since I made this project, so the APIs this code references have likely changed. I've got version 48.1 of Spark AR on my machine. 

The core technical aspect I was interested in was getting the knife to look like it was stuck in the head (i.e. to get the tracking and layering occlusion right)

I then figured it needed a build up for the suspense and foreshadowing, so that the "big reveal" would satisfying. I ended up with something a bit like an interactive music video that requires around 2 minutes of attention. Definitely more an art experiment than an attempt to make a filter people would use on Instagram! You can see a full video here: [vimeo.com/407093062](https://vimeo.com/407093062)

To build the project, I found it helpful to go through the [tutorials](https://sparkar.facebook.com/ar-studio/learn/documentation/tutorials-and-samples/) Spark AR Studio provides. I combined techniques from those tutorials. For instance, the 3D object occlusion method is based on the sunglasses demo, and the blood streams are a _slight_ twist on the confetti particles and a happy birthday message. All the 3D knifes and fantasy-novel looking blades are from the free assets available in the Spark AR marketplace.

Unrelated work that Stink Studios has done in Spark AR:
- [Mickey Mouse 90th Birthday AR](https://www.stinkstudios.com/work/disney-mickey-mouse-90th-birthday-ar)
- [Selfridges AR Experience](https://www.stinkstudios.com/work/auxiliary--selfridges-ar-experience)

### Selfies taken in the filter

[Selfie take using AR face filter 1](https://github.com/tyreer/AR-Face-Filter-Challenge/blob/master/images/selfie-grab-0.JPG?raw=true)
[Selfie take using AR face filter 2](https://github.com/tyreer/AR-Face-Filter-Challenge/blob/master/images/selfie-grab-3.JPG?raw=true)
[Selfie take using AR face filter 3](https://github.com/tyreer/AR-Face-Filter-Challenge/blob/master/images/selfie-grab-5.JPG?raw=true)
[Selfie take using AR face filter 4](https://github.com/tyreer/AR-Face-Filter-Challenge/blob/master/images/selfie-grab-6.JPG?raw=true)
